Now you should start this lecture with an empty blog post stock table and what you might have seen in
the last lectures when we associate it tag with a blog post is that we had empty created art and updated
art columns.
Yet we have defined this relation or basically this table to also contain timestamps.
So what you can do to actually have the timestamps of when the relation was created is you can add with
timestamps to the declaration of this relation on both models.
So let us do that and also let's save the changes.
Now let's go to the terminal end run peach bee artisan Tinker Let's fetch a blog post using blog posts
find will also use the blog post one.
Now let us clear the screen because it took almost the whole screen to fetch this model.
And now let's do something like this so blog post docs sync.
And now we know that we have tags with I do want to and free so we can attach them using sync.
It says that it has attached models with this I.D..
Now let's go back to the table and now you can see that the created art and updated art was filled.
So this is how you can define this relation to also include the timestamps.
So whenever you attach or create a relation then you will be able to figure out when this was created.
Now let's see how we can query the tax of our particular blog post.
So we have our blog post variable and it's tag tax relation.
If we call it not as a method or as bad as a field the same as we did with one two one and one too many
will assign all the tasks associated with a particular blog post.
So this is how can you simply query their relation.
Now notice that this actually gives us this pivot field and this gives us access to the actual role
which is inside.
Now notice that this returned those tag models but older attacks have also an additional field called
Pivot which actually is relating to the record inside the database which is basically defining this
relation now.
So basically this is returning what is inside this pivot or intermediate table called block post tag.
So now you can actually read the attributes of this.
So let's get first start.
So we have tags so this way we are accessing the first stack and we can access the pivot.
Now if you would like to read when the relation was created you can do it like that you access it using
the pivot table and you can read it normally as you would lead read an attribute of our eloquent model.
So by default it is using pivot as the name of this additional field that will represent the database
record of the pivot or intermediate table.
Now the name of this attribute pivot can also be configured so you can access the pivot table record
associated with our relation using a different name then pivot.
So let's say we would like to fetch a tag
so we do up dog find one now the tag has some blog posts.
So let's do posts tag blog posts.
That's that way you can read this relation from the other side.
So from our tag you read all the blog posts associated with a tag and this happens to have only one.
But either way each returns are collection.
And now you can see this has pivot attribute.
So this will basically always access the same pivot record whether you read that from the blog post
or from the tag.
But if you would like to use something else then pivot you can configure that so you'll have to configure
that on both sides of the relation.
The name you'd like to use for that.
You can use that as method and we can call that tact for example.
Now you'll have to restart Tinker first press control see to stop the Tinker and now run it again.
BHP artisan thinker.
So now we do the same thing will fetch a dog using up tag.
Find one will fetch the blog posts associated with that tag using blog posts.
We know that it is only a one blog post so we can already use first because this is a collection.
It has a first method which will give you the first element from the collection so you can see that
we got a blog post and then this blog post that was returned has are talked property instead of the
pivot.
So what you can do is you can do posts tagged created art.
So that's another way you can access this pivot table attribute.
So you will have to change its name on both sides of the relation and then maybe that might be a more
verbose for you to read.
Now obviously you don't have to do that and this has some problems because if you change the name of
that pivot table access or inside the relation then you have to remember how this is called and if you
don't do that then you always know that you can read this record inside the pivot table using the pivot
attribute.
And as I've said you have to do that from both sides of the relation.
Let's see this clear the screen now if we will fetch our blog post with the idea one to the post variable
and now we'll read all the tax of that blog post.
You can see that from this side of the relation.
It still has the name pivot so that way you are accessing this relation records that contain the blog
posts I.D. and tag I.D. but to modify it also from the blog post site you will also have to add as a
method call here and maybe provide a different name for the pivot table access or.